GDPR Article 5 - Principles relating to processing of personal data

Article 5(1)(a) - Lawfulness, fairness and transparency
Personal data shall be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject ('lawfulness, fairness and transparency').

Article 5(1)(b) - Purpose limitation
Personal data shall be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes.

Article 5(1)(c) - Data minimisation
Personal data shall be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ('data minimisation').

Article 5(1)(e) - Storage limitation
Personal data shall be kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed. Personal data may be stored for longer periods insofar as the personal data will be processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes.

Article 6 - Lawfulness of processing

Article 6(1)(a) - Consent
Processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the following applies: the data subject has given consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes.

Article 9 - Processing of special categories of personal data

Article 9(1) - Prohibition on processing special categories
Processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation shall be prohibited.

Article 9(2)(a) - Exception with explicit consent
Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the data subject has given explicit consent to the processing of those personal data for one or more specified purposes.

Article 13 - Information to be provided where personal data are collected from the data subject

Article 13(1)(c) - Purposes and legal basis
The controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide the data subject with the following information: the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal basis for the processing.

Article 13(2)(a) - Retention period
The controller shall provide the following further information necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing: the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period.